Transformers Agents (#23214)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/transformers_agents.mdx

</Tip>

### Chat-based execution (chat)

The agent also has a chat-based approach, using the [`~Agent.chat`] method:

```py
agent.chat("Draw me a picture of rivers and lakes")
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/rivers_and_lakes.png" width=200> 

```py
agent.chat("Transform the picture so that there is a rock in there")
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/rivers_and_lakes_and_beaver.png" width=200>

<br/>

This is an interesting approach when you want to keep the state across instructions. It's better for experimentation, 
but will tend to be much better at single instructions rather than complex instructions (which the [`~Agent.run`]
method is better at handling).

### ⚠️ Remote execution

For demonstration purposes and so that this can be used with all setups, we have created remote executors for several 
of the default tools the agent has access to. These are created using 
[inference endpoints](https://huggingface.co/inference-endpoints). To see how to setup remote executors tools yourself,

> we recommend reading the custom tool guide [TODO LINK].

Reviewer: Here is still a TODO - not 100% sure what should go there

- **Speech to text**: given an audio recording of a person talking, transcribe the speech into text ([Whisper](../model_doc/whisper))
- **Text to speech**: convert text to speech ([SpeechT5](../model_doc/speecht5))
- **Zero-shot text classification**: given a text and a list of labels, identify to which label the text corresponds the most ([BART](../model_doc/bart))
- **Text summarization**: summarize a long text in one or a few sentences ([BART](../model_doc/bart))
- **Translation**: translate the text into a given language ([NLLB](../model_doc/nllb))

These tools have an integration in transformers, and can be used manually as well, for example:

```py
from transformers import load_tool

tool = load_tool("text-to-speech")
audio = tool("This is a text to speech tool")
```

### Custom tools

While we identify a curated set of tools, we strongly believe that the main value provided by this implementation is 
the ability to quickly create and share custom tools.

By pushing the code of a tool to a Hugging Face Space or a model repository, you're then able to leverage the tool 

> directly with the agent. For demonstration purposes (and because they're super powerful), we've pushed a few 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly with the agent. We've added a few 
```

> transformers-agnostic tools in the `huggingface-tools` organization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**transformers-agnostic** tools to the `huggingface-tools` organization:
```

- **Text downloader**: to download a text from a web URL
- **Text to image**: generate an image according to a prompt, leveraging stable diffusion

> - **Image transformation**: TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Image transformation**: modify an image given an initial image and a prompt, leveraging instruct pix2pix stable diffusion
```

> - **Image inpainting**: TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The text-to-image tool we have been using since the beginning is actually a remote tool that lives in 
[*huggingface-tools/text-to-image*](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface-tools/text-to-image)! We will
continue releasing such tools on this and other organization, to further supercharge this implementation.

> We explain how to write and push to the Hub your own tools to the Hub in order to leverage them in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agents have by default access to tools that reside on `huggingface-tools`.
We explain how to you can write and share your own tools as well as leverage any custom tool that resides on the Hub in [following guide](custom_tools).
```

our prompts below, but the tools can also be used with Langchain, Minichain, or any other Agent-based library.

#### Example code for the OpenAssistant model

```py
from transformers import HfAgent

agent = HfAgent(url_endpoint="https://open-assistant.ngrok.io", token="<HF_TOKEN>")
```

#### Example code for OpenAI models

```py
from transformers import OpenAiAgent

agent = OpenAiAgent(model="text-davinci-003", api_key="<API_KEY>")
```

### Code generation

So far we have shown how to use the agents to perform actions for you. However, the agent is really only generating code
that we then execute using a very restricted Python interpreter. In case you would like to use the code generated in 
a different setting, the agent can be prompted to return the code, along with tool definition and accurate imports.

For example, the following instruction
```python
agent.run("Draw me a picture of rivers and lakes", return_code=True)
```

returns the following code

```python
from transformers import load_tool

image_generator = load_tool("huggingface-tools/text-to-image")

image = image_generator(prompt="rivers and lakes")
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

that you can then modify and execute yourself.
```

```

<Tip>

Please make sure to have the `<<all_tools>>` string defined somewhere in the `template` so that the agent can be aware 
of the tools it has available to it.

</Tip>

#### Chat-execution prompt

The chat-execution prompt is defined as such:
- Introduction: how the agent should behave, specifically as a chat-based assistant. Explanation of the concept of 
  tools. Mentions to the agent that it should first explain what it tries to do, before outputting the Python code 
  needed to perform.
- Description of all the tools. This is defined by a `<<all_tools>>` token that will be manually replaced at 
  runtime with the tools defined/chosen by the user.
- Example of chat-based tasks and their solution
- Current example, and request for solution.

In order to specify a custom single-execution prompt, one would so the following:

```
template = """ [...] """

agent = HfAgent(
	url_endpoint=your_endpoint,
	token=your_hf_token,
	chat_prompt_template=template
)
```

<Tip>

Please make sure to have the `<<all_tools>>` string defined somewhere in the `template` so that the agent can be 
aware of the tools it has available to it.

> </Tip>

Reviewer: This part will be moved soon
